# Reporting Painful Issues

As part of "being scrappy" we're using a Google Sheet as a support technical
issue tracker. JIRA is overkill and a technical support issue tracker is a walk
through a flaming Hell of pain. Therefore, we have a sheet. Thank you for your
contribution to it!

An admitted drawback of a sheet is that you might feel compelled to leave out
details so that things "fit." As a work-around feel free to link to a GitHub
issue or put all the details in anyway :)

Reporting technical issues is a skill, a skill that makes one more marketable
in the context of jobs (aka "make more money") and which we **all** must
practice. Below is some advice on how to write technical issues **and** some
examples on how to hone a report from good, to great.

In interest of trying to advance these I'm going to take some real-life samples
and try to clarify them as an example. My sincerest thanks to those that
contributed these.

## Guideline

When writing a technical report imagine that the reader has 0 context available
to them. They need the facts in front of them (or perhaps linked to a neutral
source). They don't know what you know; they are technically capable and have
all the appropriate access _but_ they need to have all the facts at hand.


## Examples

Here I'm going to write my mental dialog with some real-deal reports so that
you can see what it's like "on the other side." Again, nothing instructs like
real-world examples and these individuals are to be praised for their early
commitment and involvement.

### Example 1

> Students are lost as to how to complete this lab.  Just run `learn submit` is
> really all that needs fixing
 
Good! Thanks!

### Example 2

> This is a README but if you follow it you get 5 errors. 

Good, but **what are those 5 errors**. Again, because of the cell-based format
of a spreadsheet you might feel aesthetically repulsed by pasting those here.
Dump them in anyway, or in a google doc, or GitHub issue and link it!

### Example 3

> This lab needs to be re-done with the knowledge that a large number of people
> who have never seen code before in their life do this lab every day, and that
> CodePen sucks and breaks constantly

OK, the first comment is really helpful: it sets up context and empathy for
students where they are in their voyage. **BUT** I really want to know _how_
CodePen "sucks" and "breaks constantly."

### Example 4

> The JSON doesn't run like the previous lab, and the solution to the problem
> is in an issue flag for the lab following.

OK, I'm going to sound like a jerk here, but JSON is a serialization format, it
can't "run." And, in this sheet, I don't have any reference to what the
previous lab is. What is it to be "in an issue flag?" Hrm, I just don't know
what to do next.
